(This article is a Review)
Title: Organic-Inorganic Perovskites: Structural Versatility (多功能) for Functional Materials Design
Abstract: the key words are lead (+2) halid perovskites, Lower-dimensional organic based perovskites family and synergistic (协同) features.
The main Contents as follows:
  2. 3D Organic-Inorganic Perovskites
  3. Lower-Dimensional Organic-Inorganic Perovskites
  4. Molecular Perovskites
  7. Exceptional Properties and Device Application: like magnetic, dielectric, electrical transport, optical, optoelectronic and charge storage.

1. Introductions
  The compounds whose general formula could be expressed as CH3NH3(Pb,Sn)(I,Br)3 become the most notably perovskite materials. 
  The possibility for ultra low-cost-per-watt photovoltaic operation originate from the confluence of several factors, including extremely high optical
     absorption, small effective masses (质量) for electrons and holes, dominant point defects (缺陷) that only generate shallow (浅的) levels (能级) and grain
     boundaries that are essentially benign (良性的). 
  The methylammonium cation (CH3NH3 +) may play a role in the special suitability of the hybrid materials for photovoltaic (PV) application, through a low 
     barrier to reorientation within the structure and contributions to the dielectric/ferroelectric properties. 

Some explaination for words:
                                            PV means photovoltaic (光伏)
                                            lead means Pb and tin means Sn
                                            Chromophoric luminescent 发色团发光
                                            polarizable 可极化的
                                            polymerizable 可聚合的
                                            photocatalysis 光催化

2. 3D Organic-Inorganic Perovskites
  Perovskite refers to the mineral (矿物) CaTiO3 and any structure adopting the same ABX3 three-dimensional (3-D) structural framework. 
  In the case of organic-inorganic hybrid perovskites, at least one of the 'A', 'B', or 'X' ions are organic. 
  Space filling ionic size constrains dictate (命令) whether a certain set of 'A', 'B', or 'X' ions may adopt the perovskite framework, which involves a 
      corner-sharing network of BX6 octahedra, with the 'A' cations occupying 12-fold coordinated holes within the structure and counterbalancing the 
      charge of the BX3 extended anion. 
  In the perovskites structure, the 'A', 'B' and 'X' cations occupy the apex (顶点) of a cell, the core of a cell and the face center of a cell, resoectively.  
  The Tolerance Factor (t) concept, namely (RA+Rx) = t*2^(0.5) (RB+Rx), where R is the ionic radii for the corresponding ions.
  The nonspherically (非球面地) symmetric (对称的) organic cations and charged complexes have a great challenge to assign (指定) their radii. 
  With the assumption of the molecule being free to rotate (旋转) about its center of mass, Assigning effective radii for organic cations (t=1) becomes
     possible.
  The limit on RA is found to be approximately 2.6 Å for traditional BX3− frameworks with B = divalent metal and X = halogen.
  If A cation is monovalent (单价的) and X cation is a halogen with full occupation, B cation must be divalent (二价的) because of the charge balance. 
  And the +2 charge on the B cation can be achieved by employing equal numbers of +1 and +3 cations. 
  The lone pair s2 electrons or s-orbital hybridization lead metal atom away from crystallographic center of metal halide octahedra, (distortion of the 
      inorganic framework) resulting in alternating (交替的) long and short B-X bonds and the prospects (潜在期望) of ferroelectricity. 

3. Lower-Dimensional Organic-Inorganic Perovskites
  With the dimension reducing, the tolerance factor for 3-D is lifted. (提高)
  The <100>-oriented layered perovskites have a general formula (RNH3)2 An-1 Bn X3n+1 (two octahedra--two B cations, one RNH3 occupies the head 
       and another occupies the tail 头尾各一个, A+ occupies the center of interval). 3-D
  The <110> direction of the 3-D perovskite have a general formula A'2 Am Bm X3m+2 (the octahedra would be cutting in half. 八面体被切割为一半). 
      1-D and 2-D
  The <111>-oriented family, A'2 Aq-1 Bq X3q+3 (透视，各点X都需计入。Becasue of perspective, all the X site should be counted. ). 0-D
  A-R group: 
                    The A must contain terminal functional groups that can ionically interact with the anionic inorganic substructure (基底), but without 
                       the rest of the organic molecule interfering with the inorganic components 'B' and 'X'. 
  2-D perovskite: 
                           There is no definitive restriction for the length of the interlayer organic cation. 
                            But there is a restrictioin for the width, which must fit into area defined by the terminal halides from four adjacent (邻近的) 
                            corner-sharing octahedra. It strictly called steric hindrance (位阻). 
  If organic molecules two narrow, the structure can accommodate by allowing organicmolecules to tilt (倾斜). 

  Some words explaining:
                                       derivatives 派生物
                                       conformation 构造

3.1 <100>-orientation (RNH3)2 An-1 Bn X3n+1
  Dimensional reduction has significant impact on physical properties. e.g. The band gap increases as the dimensionality of the structure is lowered. 
  The more different set of electronegativities (电负性), the larger band gap of the compounds. 
  In two dimensions between adjacent inorganic layers, the alkyl chains of bilayers are liquid-like (T>Tm)
  Imidazolium (咪唑头) group of the organic cation has steric hindrance to hydrogen bomding (氢键位阻). 
  The buckling of inorganic layers and B-I-B angles have important influence on the crystallography, chemical bonding and the band gaps of the materials. 
  Generally, the large B-I-B angles which indicates that the degree of distortion of the inorganic framework is small leads the narrow band gap of materials. 
  Distortions are determined by the relative charge density and steric requirements of the organic cations. 
  The electronic structure is influenced by there aspects, including B-I-B bond angle, B-I bond distance (or length) and distortion of BI6 octahedra (B=Sn). 
  A convenient way of controlling the in- and out-of-plane distortions is by employing bifunctional organoammonium cations such as 
         Y(CH2)2 NH3+ (Y = OH, Cl, Br, I, CN) in the (Y−(CH2)2 NH3)2 Pb I4
  Upon heating (Br−(CH2)2NH3)2PbI4 (Y=Br) at 50−150 °C, halogen exchange between the organic and inorganic frameworks occurs yielding 
         (Br−(CH2)2NH3)2−x (I−(CH2)2NH3)x Pb Brx I4−x with xmax ∼ 1.85.
  In compound (I(CH2)2NH3)x Pb Brx I4-x, there is strong hydrogen bonding which leads distortion of octahedra and further causes the band gap to increase. 
  In (HO(CH2)2NH3)2 Pb I4 (Y = OH), the CH2CH2NH3 fragment lies within the inorganic layers, with the − OH functional group also playing an active role in 
         hydrogen bonding and with both the inorganic framework and the adjacent organic cation forming supramolecular dimers (超分子二聚体). Consequently, 
         the inorganic sheet are less distorted than Y=I and more distorted than Y=Cl, Br. 
  The B-X-B angles (β), commonly used to indicate the degree of distortion of the inorganic framework, can have out-of-plane and in-plane components.
  the deviation (Figure 6) of the axial B−I bonds from the normal to the plane of B atoms (α) can be used as a parameter to evaluate the out-of-plane distortions 
           in the structure. 

The examples and compariation:       
                                                The undistorted (Y−(CH2)2NH3)2 Pb I4 (Y=Cl and Br) have band gaps of 2.2 eV and have a distinctly more disperse (分散)
                                                      HOMO band compared to the highly distorted (I−(CH2)2NH3)2 Pb I4, which has a larger band gap of 2.45 eV. 
                                                The PbI6 octahedra are distorted in (CN(CH2)2NH3)2 Pb I4 (band gap 2.34eV) with Ieq−Pb−Ieq bond angles of 82.69−100.90° and Pb−Ieq bond lengths 
                                                                 ranging from 3.165 to 3.369 Å. In comparison, almost regular octahedra are found in (Br(CH2)2NH3)2 Pb I4,
                                                       for example, with the Ieq−Pb−Ieq angles of 88.32−91.76° and Pb−Ieq lengths of 3.180−3.280 Å, which could explain the
                                                       lower band gap value for this compound. 
                                                          The organic chain length increases in (HO-(CH2)3NH3)2 Pb I4 and [(ICmH2mNH3)2 Pb I4] (m = 2−6), less
                                                       in-plane distortion in the inorganic layer is observed.
                                                          Mixed-valent metal cations in ⟨100⟩-oriented derivatives [NH3(CH2)8NH3]2 [(Au(I) I2)(Au(III) I4)(I3)2] and 
                                                 [NH3(CH2)7NH3]2 [(Au(I) I2)(Au(III) I4)(I3)2]
                                                                   The Au  alternates in each layer as liner [AuI2]- and square planar [AuI4]-. 
                                                (NH3(CH2)8NH3)2+ dications adopt a gauche (笨拙的) conformation, and 
                                                                   (NH3(CH2)7NH3)2+ are in a staggered anti conformation.
                                                        This conformational difference between the cations results in the similar cation lengths of 10.13 and 10.04 Å, respectively. 
                                                        The optical band gaps of [NH3(CH2)8NH3]2 [(AuI2)-(AuI4)(I3)2] and [NH3(CH2)7NH3]2 [(AuI2)(AuI4)(I3)2]
                                                                   were measured to be 1.14 and 0.95 eV, respectively, lower than the reported value of 1.31 eV for Cs2Au(I)Au(III)I6 
                                                                                (or CsAuI3). 
                                                 Solar cells with a targeted CH3NH3 Pb (SCN)2 I composition showed similar PCE values to the CH3NH3PbI3 films, 
                                                        but the films containing thiocyanate ions were reported to provide enhanced stability under moist (潮湿的) air. 
                                                        In fact, one possible scenario (情况) is that the targeted 3-D perovskite CH3NH3 Pb (SCN)2 I phase does not exist and, 
                                                                        instead, crystals of a ⟨100⟩-oriented layered compound (CH3NH3)2 Pb (SCN)2 I2 form. 
                                                        The band gap values of 1.53−1.65eV for (CH3NH3)2 Pb (SCN)2 I2 are low for a single inorganic sheet hybrid perovskite.
                                                 The (H2AEQT) B2/3 I4 (AEQT = 5,5‴-bis(aminoethyl)-2,2′:5′,2″:5″,2‴-quaterthiophene; M = Bi3+ or Sb3+) compounds. 
                                                        the charge balance requirements following (H2AEQT 2+) (B3+)2/3 (I−)4. 

  The ns2 lone pair which manifests (显示) itself as a distortion of the BX6 octahedra and originates from the mixing of the frontier HOMO 
        (highest occupied molecular orbital)−LUMO (lowest unoccupied molecular orbital) orbitals known as a second-order Jahn−Teller (SOJT) effect that are 
        observed for d0 and ns2 d0 cations. According to this theory, the distortions of the metal centered BX6 octahedra lead to a stabilization (稳定化) of the HOMO 
        and destabilization (不稳定化) of the LUMO, which increases the band gap. 
  The (I3)- and [AuI2]- are related and exchangeable, which is similar to the (I5)- and [AuI4]-. So the (I3)- could be extracted. 
  The linear ion, the thiocyanate SCN− anion, could be used for photovoltaics (PV) and solid state chemistry communities. It was found that incorporation (合并) of 
         a small amount of  Pb(SCN)2 (5 wt %) into the regular two-step solution deposition of CH3NH3PbI3 films resulted in better film qualities with larger grain sizes, 
         which resulted in improved power conversion (转换) efficiencies (PCE) and a noticeable enhancement in the photoluminescence emission quantum yield (产率).  
  
  Low band gap is an target for potential electro-optical applications. 
  Given the vacancies, the perovskite structure has to compete against other non-perovskite structures with no vacancies. 

  (RNH3)2 Pb X4, r is the number of atoms in the ring of R
     It should be noted that large cross-sectional (横截面的) area organic cations or a geometry (几何形状) that provides steric hindrance are not essential for 
         obtaining 1-D compounds. 
     r=3 (cyclopropylammonium 环丙基胺) to r=6 (cyclohexylammonium 环己基胺) is 2-D, however, r=7 (cycloheptylammonium) gives 1-D chains of 
             corner-sharing octahedra in (C7H13NH3)3PbI5 and (C7H13NH3)3PbBr5·H2O. 

 Some words explaining:
                                      stoichiometry 化学计量学                                  stabilization-- the energy level decreases
                                      lipid bilayers 脂质双层                                      destanilization-- the energy level increases
                                      be anchored to 被固定在
                                      rotation 旋转
                                      regular dynamic 正则动态（动力学）
                                      melting 熔融的
                                      methylene 亚甲基
                                      conformational disorder 构象无序
                                      alkyl 烷基                                                 simulation 模拟，计算
                                      dication 二价阳离子
                                      iodide 碘化物                                           flat 平坦，平缓
                                      deviation 偏离，误差                               normal 法线
                                      imidazolium 咪唑头                                  quaternary 4个一组的，季（伯仲叔季）
                                      the quaternary ammonium group 季铵盐     corrugation 波纹
                                      buckling 粗糙度                                        equatorial 近赤道的
                                      disperse 分散                                            gauche 笨拙的，相同的
                                      staggered 交错的                                 cross-sectional area 横截面积

3.2 <110>-oriented perovskites  A'2 Am Bm X3m+2
  The [NH2C(1)=NH2]2 (CH3NH3)m Snm I3m+2 series includes formation of hydrogen bonds down the channels of (沿着) the ⟨110⟩-oriented perovskite layers, 
              and the fact that the iodine atoms of the iodoformamidinium cation complete the 12-fold coordination environment around the methylammonium cation. 
     m = 1−4 members of  the [NH2C(I)=NH2]2 - (CH3NH3)m Snm I3m+2 series include the m = 1, 1-D-chain structures 
          [NH2C(I)=NH2]2 A Sn I5 (A = NH2C(I)=NH2+ or NH2CH=NH2+)
     the m = 2, 2-D-layered structure [NH2C(I)=NH2]2 (CH3NH3)2 Sn2 I8
     while m is increased further, the thickness of the perovskite layers also increases, with m = ∞ corresponding to the 3-D parent perovskite structure. 
      Therefore, this ⟨110⟩-oriented family allows tuning of the dimensionality of the perovskite structure from the 3-D parent structure to various-thickness 2-D 
             layers in the m = 2−4 members, and to 1-D chains in the m = 1 member. 
  
  Some examples:
                           m=1: [CH3SC(=NH2)NH2]3 Pb I5 shows that other organoammonium cations can template this structure.
                           m=2: [C(NH2)3]2 Pb I4 undergoes a ferroelastic phase transition at 307 K. 
                           m=2: (C6H13N3) Pb Br4 (or (C6H13N3)2 Pb2 Br8) is an optically active material featuring a primary amine (伯胺) as a functional group 
                                    attached to the imidazole heterocyclic ring. A ternary ammonium cation in the ring, which asserts steric hindrance for the formation 
                                    of a perovskite framework.
                                           In (C3H11SN3) Pb Br4, the organic cation which combines a primary ammonium and a formamidinium (甲脒) head on the two opposite 
                                           ends of the molecule leads to contorted inorganic layers 

  The highly distorted inorganic framework of this compound can also be described as an assembly of loosely coupled 0-D clusters. 

  Some words explaining: 
                                       analogs 类似物                                  template 模拟
                                  assembly 组装                                                elusive 难以理解的
                                  sublattice 子格，亚点阵                     deformation 变形
                                  symmetry 对称                                  ternary 三元的
                                  contorted 弯曲的                               formamidinium  甲脒
                                  down the channels of  沿着

3.3 <111>-oriented Perovskites A'2 Aq-1 Bq X3q+3, A'-interlayer, A-intralayer. 
  By changing the position of the aminomethyl group on the six-membered pyridine (吡啶) ring, synthesized 2-(aminomethyl) pyridinium (H2 2-AMP)2+, 
           3 -(aminomethyl) pyridinium (H2 3-AMP) 2+, and 4 -(aminomethyl) pyridinium (H2 4-AMP) 2+ cations, 
           which were subsequently used to obtain perovskite structures of different dimensionality under similar experimental conditions. 
  The resultant compounds (H2 2-AMP) Pb Br4, ( H2 3-AMP)2 Pb Br6, and (H2 4-AMP) Pb Br4 feature ⟨100⟩-oriented 2-D layers,
           ⟨111⟩-oriented 0-D clusters, and 1-D-chains formed by edgesharing octahedra, respectively. 
  Their their steric hindrance and hydrogen bonding capabilities are very different from each other. 
  It is somewhat unexpected that the ⟨100⟩-oriented layered (H2 2-AMP) Pb Br4 and ⟨111⟩-oriented 0-D cluster compound (H2 3-AMP)2 Pb Br6 have similar
           band gap values of ∼2.8 eV. One of the reasons for the close band gap values may be due to the SOJT effect (or stereochemical activity of 
              the Pb lone pair states). 
  
  Some examples:
                              q=1: (H2 3-AMP)2 Pb Br6 belong to the cubic K2 Pt Cl6 -type structure,mixed-valent [N(CH3)4]2 Sb(III)0.5 Sb(V)0.5 Cl6, 
                                            and [N(C2H5)4]2 Sb(III)0.5 Sb(V)0.5 Cl6 may be rare examples of q = 1 members with larger organic cations. 
                                   Cs2 Sn I6 has recently been used as a hole conductor in a solar cell device
                                   A2 Te X6 (A = NH4+, K+, R b+, C s+, T l+; X = C l−, Br−, I−) featuring Te4+, which is isoelectronic to for example Sn2+ and Pb2+. 
                                   The q=1 structure be able to accept a wide range of components as long as the charge balance is preserved. 

   (A3B2X9, A'=A)q=2:  including (NH4)3 Sb2 I9, (CH3NH3)3 Bi2 Br9, [NH2(CH3)2]3 Sb2 Cl9, [NH(CH3)3]3 Sb2 Cl9, and (CH3NH3)3 Sb2 I9, featuring
                                   small organic cations. The q=2 members crystallize in the α-Cs3 Sb2 Cl9 structure type, feature Cs+ and Rb+ cations. 
                                   The α-Cs3 Sb2 Cl9 structure type has be examined as prospective Pb-free perovskite for use in PV devices. 
                                   Two interesting features are common in all of the known q =2 members so far: 
                                                 (1) the metal cations are trivalent pnictogens due to the charge balance. 
                                                 (2) there is only little difference between the thickness of the single inorganic sheet and the interlayer distance 
                                                       due to the small sizes of the interlayer organic and inorganic cations and, as such (因此), 
                                                       these compositions could have also adopted Sb(Bi)-deficient 3-D perovskite structures with a random distribution of vacancies. 

                                                       This conjecture is supported by the fact that cations such as CH3NH3 + can be incorporated into the 3-D perovskite structure, 
                                                             as evidenced by the well-known photovoltaic material CH3NH3 Pb I3. 
                                                             Another supporting evidence is that the Sb and Bi vacancies can also be disordered in the ⟨100⟩-oriented layered perovskite 
                                                             framework, as demonstrated by the above-mentioned (H2AEQT) B2/3 I4 compounds that feature random distributions 
                                                             of Sb and Bi vacancies in the perovskite layers.

                                      The preference for forming the q = 2 member of the ⟨111⟩-oriented A3 B2 X9 perovskites with a small A+ cation 
                                       (as opposed to a disordered 3-D perovskite), therefore, could be attributed to a greater stability of this structure (i.e., thermodynamic sink) 
                                       in the energy landscape of the perovskite compounds. 

                                       In principle, there should be no constraints for the interlayer A′ cation length for the q = 2 members of the ⟨111⟩-oriented perovskites, 
                                                if the intralayer “A” site is populated with smaller cations. But no q = 2 members with two very different cations have been reported to date. 

                                        The q=2 perovskite structure collapses when the size of the organic cation is too big. 
                                                     For example, [NH(CH3)3]3 Sb2 Cl9 adopts the layered ⟨111⟩-oriented perovskite structure, 
                                                     while [N(CH3)4]3 Sb2 Cl9 features [Sb2Cl9] (3-) dimers (二聚体) made of two SbCl6 face-sharing octahedra. 
                                                     The hydrogen bonding abilities of [NH(CH3)3]+ and [N(CH3)4]+ cations are quite different, which may contribute to the
                                                 difference in the observed structural preference. 

                                        The dimer structure is a competing phase for many of the q = 2 members, and for compounds such as Cs3 Sb2 I9 
                                              and (CH3NH3)3 Sb2 I9, this polymorph is obtained from solution, 
                                              whereas the layered modification may be obtained from solid state or gas phase reactions. 

                                         Small A+ cations is therefore a stumbling block for the preparation of the q = 2 members with two cations of different sizes (A′+ and A+) 
                                                       and higher order q > 2 members of the ⟨111⟩-oriented series A′2 Aq‑1 Bq X3q+3. 

                                                  This complicates the synthesis of the ∞> q> 2 members, because, unless a mixture of organic ammonium
                                              and diammonium cations were to be used, the oxidation state on the B cation must be fractional, i.e. between +2 and +3, and
                                              a mixture of two or more B-cations (or oxidation states for a single B cation) is necessary. 


  Some words explaining: 
                                      aromatic 芳香的                                 isomers 同分异构体
                                      subtle 不易察觉的                             intra- 内                                  inter- 间
                                      isoelectronic 等电子的                       masses 质量
                                      effective masses 有效质量                 dispersive 弥散的
                                      perpendicular 正交的                         handicap 阻碍
                                      pnictogen 氮族元素                          deficient 缺陷
                                      conjecture 猜想                                 stumbling block 绊脚石
                                      fractional 小数

3.4 More Exotic (奇特的) Frameworks 
  1)The role of “spectator” ions (i.e., species that are added to the reaction medium but do not feature in the final compound in a measurable concentration), 
           remains under-explored. (see examples in later Examples and explaination 1))
  2)The fact that the reaction conditions in general, and the addition of uncommon reactants in particular, can influence the way in which 
         the perovskite structure is fragmented can be exemplified by the 2-D staircase [Pb4I18]10− sheets in 
         [(H2en)7(C2O4)2][Pb4 I18]·4H2O, where en = ethylendiamine (乙二胺). (see examples in later Examples and explaination 2))

  Examples and explaination: 
     1)α-[NH3(CH2)5NH3] Sn I4, which features zigzag perovskite layers that are separated by 1,5-pentanediammonium (戊二铵) cations. 
          Under regular synthetic conditions, the β-phase containing ⟨100⟩-oriented [SnI4]2- layers is formed, whereas the α-phase is obtained 
            when CH3NH3 I is added to the reaction medium. 
            This was attributed to a possible formation of CH3NH3 Sn I3 and subsequent more irregular fragmentation of the 3-D structure, 
              but the detail is not clear.  

            The α-phase feature trans- and cis-shared SnI6 octahedra, can be seen as a combination of the ⟨100⟩- and the ⟨110⟩-oriented layers. 
                     In an alternative description of the α-[NH3(CH2)5NH3] Sn I4 structure, the layers are composed of 4-octahedra long ⟨100⟩-
                     oriented layer fragments that are interconnected at 45° angles to form a zigzag morphology (形态学). 

        2)[(H2en)7(C2O4)2][Pb4 I18]·4H2O is obtained by a solvothermal reaction of PbI2, K2C2O4·H2O, and en in a concentrated HI and ethanol solution. 
              The authors note the importance of reaction conditions, including pH ∼ 1 and the K2C2O4·H2O reactant,
                which cannot be replaced by H2C2O4. The C2O42− anions play a pivotal role in the formation of the structure, as they are
                 incorporated with organic cations (H2en)2+ forming supramolecular assemblies of distinct (不同的) shapes-
                 -the nominal cationic layer [(H2en)7(C2O4)2]10+. 
                    [(H2en)7(C2O4)2]10+ plays, not only a cotemplating role, but also necessitates an unprecedented charge of −10 in the inorganic [Pb4I18]10− sheets. 

               Four PbI6 octahedra share corners to form tetrameric Pb4I20 building blocks, and these tetramers (四聚体) further share corners in a staircase fashion to form
                the anionic [Pb4I18]10− layers in the structure. 

              [(H2en)7(C2O4)2][Pb4I18]·4H2O is reported as a direct band gap semiconductor with an optical band gap of 2.47 eV. 

  Some words explaining:
                                      species 物种                                spectator 观众
                                 trans- 反式                                  fragments 碎片
                                 cis- 顺式                                     reactants 反应物
                                 staircase 楼梯                               pivotal 关键的
                                 distinct shapes 独特形状，不同形状 nominal 名义上的
                                 unprecedented 前所未有的              tetrameric 四聚物
                                 iodide 碘化物                               lead iodide 碘化铅
                                 negligible 微不足道的                    sheet 薄片

4. Functional Organic Cations
   1)Larger degree of conjugation (共轭，后指噻吩环个数，链的长度) provides a smaller HOMO−LUMO separation which determines the band gap. 
  
   2)A number of other examples in which energy/charge transfer between organic and inorganic components of the perovskite structure have been explored
       include naphthalene and pyrene (吡) derivatives within lead(II) halide frameworks. 

   3)If we view the organic−inorganic perovskite structure as a self-assembling multilayer quantum well (QW), then perhaps the organic and inorganic components 
        can be selected such that they will enable tuning between a type I quantum well system and type II. (I型和II型间调节)
      Type-I: the lowest energy state for both electrons and holes may be on the organic cation layer
      Type-II: the valence band is expected to shift up and the lowest energy state for electrons 
                        and holes may then be on different components of the structure. 

   4)Inclusion of more complex and larger organic moieties has also been attempted with other motivations (动机) in mind (考虑在内). 

   5)Another interesting prospective example involves the incorporation of the fullerene derivatives. 

   6)It is important to realize that observation of a layered structure is not, in itself, convincing evidence of the perovskite framework. 

   7)Another example of larger organic cation, in this case based on cationic propylammonium (丙基氨)-functionalized polyhedral (多面体) 
      oligomeric (低聚的) silsesquioxane 倍半硅氧烷 (POSS) 
      interlayers, has been synthesized and structural studies are underway. 

   10)first creating polymer chains with tethering 栓系 ammonium groups and then subsequently incorporating these polymeric moieties into the metal halide 
          framework. 

   11)One apparent practical application of perovskites containing polymerized units is the enhanced air- and moisture- stability provided by 
         the protective polymer layers. 



  Examples:
                  1)5,5‴-bis(aminoethyl)-2,2′:5′,2″:5″,2‴-quaterthio-phene (AEQT) into a ⟨100⟩-oriented layered lead(II) halide perovskite framework. AEQT Pb X4
                      Oligothiophenes (低聚噻吩) are particularly useful for electronic structure engineering studies because the HOMO−LUMO separation 
                       can readily be tailored relative to the band gap of the inorganic component of the structure by changing the length of the thiophene (噻吩) chain. 

                       With “n” representing the number of α-linked thiophene (噻吩) rings within the chain, the absorption peak associated with the 
                        HOMO−LUMO separation varies from between approximately 302 nm (4.1 eV) for n=2 to 432 nm (2.9 eV) for n=6. 
                       The quaterthiophene (n = 4) molecule, with its ∼3.2 eV HOMO−LUMO separation, perfectly intersects the band gap range offered for 
                        the lead(II) halide perovskite sheet, as often monitored by the associated exciton absorption peak−i.e.,AEQT Pb X4
                        approximately 330 nm (3.8 eV) for X = Cl, 400 nm (3.1 eV) for X = Br and 500 nm (2.5eV) for X=I. 

                       While Förster resonant energy transfer involves energy transfer through nonradiative dipole-dipole coupling 
                        and is inversely proportional to the sixth power of the distance between the donor and acceptor, 
                        Dexter charge transfer processes involve the nonradiative transfer of an excited electron from one species to the other 
                        and has a stronger exponential decay with separation. 

                 2)3-2-(aminoethyl 氨基乙基) indole 吲哚 (C8NH6-CH2CH2NH2) incorporated in a [CuCl4]2- framework;
                    azobenzene (偶氮苯) associated with [CdBr4]2-, mixtures of organic cations (chromophore (发色团) and nonchromophore) 
                    within a [PbBr4]2- framework, and ⟨110⟩-oriented structures stabilized by n-(3-aminopropyl 氨丙基) imidazole (咪唑). 

                     Such studies involving quaterthiophene (四噻吩), naphthalene (萘) and related aromatic (芳香的) organic components
                     display the unique flexibility of the organic-inorganic perovskites to allow electronic tunability of both organic and
                     inorganic species to create a cooperative (协同的) response.

                 3)For the AEQT Pb X4 hybrid discussed earlier, for X=Cl wherein the band gap is significantly larger than the HOMO−LUMO separation of 
                         the organic molecule, the lowest energy state for both electrons and holes may be on the organic cation layer. 
                         In contrast, as the halide is shifted from X = Cl to Br and I, the valence band is expected to shift up and the lowest energy state for electrons 
                         and holes may then be on different components of the structure. (Fig20)

                     Photoluminescence quenching of the AEQT molecule in the X = I structure is consistent with this model. 

                 4)[Cu(O2C−(CH2)3−NH3)2] Pb Br4, incorporation of Cu2(CO2)4 “paddle-wheel” (浆轮) clusters, with the anionic part of the molecule 
                     complexing to the metal and the cationic part serving to tether onto the [PbBr4]2- sheets, can be accomplished using amino (氨基) 
                     carboxylic (羧基的) acid zwitterionic (两性离子的) molecules. 

                     The coordinated metal clusters constitute “secondary building units” (SBUs) and have been used to 
                     design porous (多孔的) metal-organic frameworks (MOFs).

                     One special structural feature is that the terminal ligands (配体) of the Cu2(CO2)4 moiety are coordinated by apical (顶端的) bromines (Br) 
                         from the [PbBr4]2- sheets, thereby creating Br−Cu−Cu-Br covalent linkages between nearest-neighbor perovskite layers (Fig22)
                         and increasing the effective dimensionality of the material (at least from a structural point of view). 

                     Use of such SBUs may provide a structured approach to modified electrical transport and optical response. 

                  5)N-methyl (甲基)-2-(4-ammoniumphenyl 氨苯基)-fulleropyrrolidine (富勒烯吡咯烷) iodide (AmPF-I2) 
                         and N-(n-dodecyl 12烷基)-2-(4-ammoniumphenyl 氨苯基)-fulleropyrrolidine iodide (C12 AmPF-I2) in a lead(II) iodide framework. 

                         The fullerene molecule itself has a diameter of ∼7.1 Å, rendering it a very tight prospective fit within the layered perovskite structure. [Fig24]
                     There may be the possibility of diluting (稀释) it with long-chain alkylammonium cations to improve the fit. 

                     The organic cation is doubly protonated (双重质子化的), and it may therefore be accommodated (被容纳) in the space allotted (分配的) for 
                          two cations from the proto-typical (R-NH3)2 Pb I4 structure because of the charge balance, where the cations are monoprotonated. 

                  6)(n-C12H25NH3)2 Zn Cl4 comprises a distinctly layered structure, but with layers of isolated [ZnCl4]2- tetrahedral clusters 
                           rather than the extended perovskite sheets. 

                  7)Successful preparation of [Si8O12(C3H6NH3)8]-[CuCl4]4 (CuPOSS) has been reported, along with the
                     analogous derivatives PdPOSS, PbPOSS, and MnPOSS. 

                  8)In earlier publications, the auther used 3-aminopropyltrimethoxysilane (氨基丙基三甲氧基硅烷) NH2(CH2)3Si(OCH3)3 (APS), 
                     and the successful formation of Si−O−Si networks was evidenced from FT-IR and 29Si solid-state NMR data. 

                         Suggestive (00L) peaks of the prospective perovskite sheets are observed in the powder X-ray diffraction patterns of (APS)2PbCl4 and
                         (APS)2PbI4 films. 

                         The optical band gap values calculated using these data yield 4.84 eV for (APS)2PbCl4 and 3.25 eV for (APS)2PbI4, 
                         which are (if confirmed) among the highest reported band gap values for hybrid lead halide perovskites. 

                   9)Polymerization of the diene functional group within [HOOC−CH=CH−CH=CH−CH2NH3]2-CdCl4 
                          (6-amino 氨基-2,4-trans,trans-hexadienoic acid 己二烯酸 organic component)
                           results in ordered formation of the 1,4-trans-polybutadiene 聚丁二烯. 

                  10)dipping a film of the hydrogen bromide 溴化物 salt of poly(3-aminododecylthiophene) in an aqueous solution 水溶液 
                           of lead(II) bromide, yielding a composite film that  exhibits characteristic exciton absorption from the [PbBr4]2- layers. 

                  Although the poor crystallinity 结晶度 or partial ordering 偏序 is indicated, 
                     indeed these materials self-assemble into the layered perovskite framework (or a closely aligned structural type). 

                     The photoluminescence (PL) from the polyacetylene 聚乙炔 component of the hybrid structure is substantially improved 
                         (PL quantum efficiencies of as high as 62% are reported) compared with the polyacetylene component on its own, 
                     presumably 大概 because the interaction among polymer chains is reduced in the hybrid as a result of 由于 
                         being sheathed 被包覆 in the lead(II) bromide layers. 

                  11)addition of small amounts of polyethylenimine 聚乙烯亚胺 hydrogen iodide (PEI·HI) into the regular solution deposition procedure 
                      for methylammonium lead iodide yields films that are stable up to 400h under ambient 周围的 conditions with a relative humidity 湿度 of ∼50%. 

                          For this purpose, the authors first spin-coated 旋涂 a mixture of PbI2 and PEI·HI, followed by a coating of a
                      CH3NH3 I layer with targeted compositions of (CH3NH3PbI3)1-x [(PEI)2PbI4]x (0 ≤ x ≤ 0.04). 
                         Incorporation of a small amount of 2-D perovskite (PEI)2 Pb I4 (x=2%) improves 
                         surface roughness and grain size (up to 1 μm), resulting in smooth and pore-free 无气孔 films. 
                         Higher polymeric cation content of x = 4% gives films with reduced grain size, although their surface coverage is still better
                     than the pristine 原始的 CH3NH3PbI3 films. 

  Observation of characteristic exciton features in the absorption spectrum (光谱) is a valuable confirmation for systems containing
  Ge(II), Sn(II), or Pb(II) halide perovskite layers (for the 100% fullerene-incorporated systems, these features are absent). 

The explanation of Figues:
              Fig19:
                        the exciton band (EB) for the inorganic framework. 
                        GS refers to the ground state for each of the transitions.
                        The zigzag lines correspond to possible nonradiative transitions. 
              Fig20: 
                        the valence band (VB) 价带
                        conduction band (CB) 导带

  Some words explaining:
                                 palette 调色板                                 conjugation 共轭
                                 prototypical 典型的                         tailored 定做的
                                 vary from A to B 在A到B间变化    intersect 与相交
                                 exciton 激子                                   quenching 猝灭
                                 conversion 转变                              spectral 光谱
                                 overlap 重叠                                   dipole 偶极子
                                 inversely 相反地                             proportional 成比例
                                 the six power 六次方                       exponential 指数的
                                 chromophore 发色团                        exciton band-EB
                                 quantum well (QW) 量子阱             analogy 类比
                                 disparate 不同的                              nonparabolicity 非分解性
                                 tether 拴绳                                       constitue 组成
                                 ligands  配体                                    apical 顶端的
                                 doubly protonated 双重质子化         intricacies 错综复杂
                                 impart 给予                                irradiation 放射，射线
                                 diene 二烯烃
                            
5. Intercalation 夹层 systems
  The arrangement of organic R-groups within the 2-D (R-NH3)2 B X4 structure is tail-to-tail, depending upon the degree of interdigitation, 
  provide a van der Waals gallery 通道 or gap into which potentially functional molecules may intercalate 插入. 

  However, the weak van der Waals type interaction between the proposed intercalation species and the organic cations 
  made explicit structural characterization of the intercalated structure (e.g., by single crystal structure refinement 细化，提炼) problematic, 
  due to the instability of the composite.

 1)The noncovalent fluoroaryl−aryl 氟芳基-芳基 interaction stabilized the intercalation system, which primarily arises from the relatively large 
  but opposite in sign 符号 quadrupole 四极 moments 矩 for molecules based on C6H6 and C6F6 (or other analogous aromatic 
  nonfluorinated 非氟化的  and fluorinated molecules). 

 2)The inorganic framework can be used to control whether molecules will intercalate or not into the hybrid structure. 

 3)Intercalation can also be combined with chemical reactivity. 

 4)In each case the chemisorption of iodine leads to significant expansion of the structure, 
    particularly perpendicular 垂直 to the perovskite layers. 



  Examples: 
               1)-1 Films of (C6H5 C2H4 NH3)2 Sn I4(where C6H5 C2H4 NH3+ = phenethylammonium 苯乙基铵) 
                         deposited from methanol
                         yielded a crystal structure with
                         interlayer separation (distance between the [SnI4]- perovskite sheets) of 16.3 Å. However, when these films were dipped into
                         a solution containing hexafluorobenzene 六氟苯, the interlayer separation stretched to 20.6 Å 
                        (no long axis structure was achieved if films were dipped into benzene 苯). 

                  1)-2 Likewise, films of (C6F5C2H4NH3)2 Sn I4 (where C6F5 C2H4 NH3+ = pentafluorophenethylammonium 五氟苯乙基铵) 
                         deposited from methanol 
                         yielded interlayer separation of 17.5 Å, whereas these same films dipped in a solution containing benzene 苯
                         yielded interlayer separation of 20.7 Å (no long axis structure was observed for films dipped into hexafluorobenzene 六氟苯).

                 Little conclusion: In the examples 1)-1 and 1)-2, there is offset face-to-face 偏移面对面 interaction between the intercalated molecules 
                                                     and the initial perovskite organic cations. This offset face-to-face interaction is structurally similar to that
                                            observed in the 1:1 benzene-hexafluorobenzene complex, a prototypical fluoroaryl−aryl 氟芳基-芳基 compound. 
                                                     Gently heating deintercalates the molecular species and leads to recovery of the parent layered perovskite. 

                      2)While the tin(II) 锡-based systems show facile 温和的 and stable intercalation, (C6H5C2H4NH3)2 Cu Cl4 crystals were not
                      successfully intercalated, presumably because of the less favorable orientation of the phenyl ring 苯环 in the copper(II) 铜
                      chloride 氯化 structure for prospective interaction with fluorinated aromatic molecules.

                  3) iodine-incorporated (R-NH3)2PbBr4, where R-NH3 comprises an organic cation with a terminal alkyne or alkene. 
                      Using a lead(II) bromide framework, the parent layered perovskite undergoes topotactic transformation 
                           in the presence of iodine vapor 蒸气, with iodine covalently bonding to the unsaturated hydrocarbons 碳氢化合物. 

                  In the case of PEA, the reaction PEA ↔ PEA-I2 can be cycled, with addition/removal of two iodine atoms, 
                         showing the reversibility of the chemisorption 化学吸附 process. 

                     4)for BYA2 Pb Br4 the c-axis lattice parameter expands by 38% during the reaction BYA → BYA-I2 
                     and iodine capacities in the nonporous perovskite frameworks are
                     comparable to what can be achieved with more typical porous frameworks used for gas capture 
                     (e.g., with gravimetric capacity of 0.43g I2 per gram for the BYA2 Pb Br4 perovskite). 

                    the ability to conduct the iodine storage reaction depends on the inorganic framework--e.g., in PEA2 CuCl4, no reactivity 反应性 arises in an
                    iodine-saturated vapor and the unsaturated hydrocarbon cations are therefore presumably held within 持有 an unsuitable
                    configuration 构型，配置 for the intercalation/reaction to occur.

conclusion: when the layered 2-D perovskite forms, the organic cations and iodide species can readily diffuse 弥散 through the van
                  der Waals gap formed in the reacted material to reach the unreacted lead(II) iodide starting materials underneath 底部. 
                  If the 3-D perovskite forms, then there is no van der Waals pathway and the diffusion of the reacting species proceeds much slower. 

                  In summary, as can be seen from each of the above examples,
                  the particular structural/chemical details of the organic cation within the perovskite 
                  (as also templated 模板化 by the inorganic framework) may control the ability to intercalate molecules and
                  the reactivity of these species with the underlying 根本的 parent compound, as well as facilitate molecular transport during the
                  perovskite film formation.

  Some words explaining:
                                    tail 尾部                     intercalate 插入
                               tailoring  裁剪             aliphatic 脂肪族的
                               topotactic 拓扑的         unsaturated 不饱和的
                               facilitate 促进              fabrication 制造
                                    diffuse 弥散

Some Questions:
1. This article mentions that the band gap would be increasing while the degree of the distortion of inorganic framework  becomes higher. 
      Could I consider it as due to the distortion constraining the electrons' movement ? Because it is similar to the effect of electronegativities (电负性)
      on the band gap of the compounds, which shows that more different set of electronegativities leads the larger band gap of the compounds. 
2. The band gap could be adjusted through changing the chain length of the organic cations and the degree of conjugation, and larger conjugation leads
      smaller band gap. But the structure would collapse while the size of organic cations became too large. So, my ideal is that could we use (even design) 
      a distorted or curly (卷曲的) organic cation to prevent the collaspes of the structure of Perovskites, and meanwhile, the organic cations could reinforce
      the conjugation and make the layers separate as much as possible? 
3. 