A review
Halide Perovskite Photovoltaics: Background, Status, and Future Prospects

2. FUNDAMENTAL STRUCTURE, WORKING MECHANISM, AND MAJOR MILESTONES 里程碑 OF PROGRESS
2.1 Semiconductor Properties of Organic Lead Halide Perovskites

  ionic crystals that exhibit semiconducting properties. 

  the optical absorption wavelength of halide perovskites shows a wide variation with the kind and molar ratio of halides (I, Br, Cl) 

  allows easy tuning of band gap and optical absorption by varying the halide ions (I, Br, Cl).
  e.g. (CH3NH3 Pb (Brx I1‑x)3‑y Cly , 0 ≤ x ≤ 1); (HC(NH2)2 Pb Br1‑y Iy, y = 0-1.

  mixed-halide perovskites can form good solid solutions as ionic crystals. 

  CH3NH3PbI3, MA is CH3NH3, a standard perovskite absorber in PV cells

  The valence band (VB) of MAPbI3 consists of approximately 70% of I 5p orbitals and 25% of Pb 6s2 orbitals (lone pair), 
  while the conduction band (CB) consists of a mixture of Pb 6p and other orbitals. 
  This structure is opposite to that of GaAs, in which the VB and CB are formed by p and s orbitals, respectively.

  direct band gap of MA PbI3 and p−p electronic transitions from VB to CB, enabled by the Pb s orbital lone pair, contribute to
   exceptionally high optical absorption coefficients

  The unique defect properties of perovskite are attributed to strong Pb s−I p antibonding coupling, 
  weak Pb p−I p coupling, and its ionic characteristics.
  Weak antibonding coupling between Pb p and I p orbitals fixes the conduction band minimum (CBM) close to the Pb p orbital, 
  and strong Pb s−I p antibonding coupling lowers the valence band maximum (VBM) close to the I p orbital. 

  Therefore, for vacancies (defects) formed by removal of I−, the defect state lies between the Pb p atomic orbital level and the CBM, 
  and for the Pb2+ vacancy, the defect state is formed between the I p and VBM levels. 
  MAPbI3 generate trap states that either reside within the bands (VB or CB) or exist as shallow traps near the CB and VB.

  defect-tolerant is reflected by the large carrier diffusion lengths. 

  MAPbI3 has ambipolar carrier mobility, exhibiting similar effective mass values for both electrons and holes (0.23−0.29), 
   which is a rare property endowed to 赋予 this ionic crystal

  photogenerated carriers in MAPbI3 behave as free carriers, and these carriers can migrate in the perovskite absorber layer without
  recombination for a long time (PL measurements show carrier lifetime of several hundreds of nanoseconds).

It is also considered that high ionic density in halide perovskites helps to suppress recombination between electrons and holes 
by a charge-screening effect 电荷屏蔽 against Coulombic interaction. 库仑相互作用

In summary, the important factors that support high efficiency of perovskite solar cells are the following: 
(1) a high optical absorption coefficient (105 cm -1) that allows the use of a thin film, 
(2) a long carrier diffusion length and suppressed recombination (defect tolerance), and
(3) a well-balanced 均衡的 charge transfer.

One property related to the loss of efficiency that is limits the VOC and efficiency of PSCs is defect (trap) density in halide perovskite crystals
Equally important are the losses caused by interfacial recombination that depend on the properties of other layers in the device.


2.2. Working Principle

electrons from the excited state (LUMO) of the perovskite are injected into the CB of TiO2 and transported through the layer to reach the FTO substrate. 
From there it flows in an external circuit to the counter electrode (cathode), where it combines with oxidized species of electrolyte. 
The reduced 还原的 species then diffuses to the vicinity of the oxidized 氧化的 perovskite to reduce it.

electrons and holes can be transported through the perovskite film itself, without the need for any semiconducting scaffold 支架. 

n-i-p and p-i-n solar cells, where perovskite works as an intrinsic 本征的 absorber sandwiched between two selective contacts (p and n).

  In the n-i-p structure, TiO2 (compact or mesoporous layer) works as an n-type electron transport material (ETM),
  perovskite functions as the intrinsic (i) absorber, 
  and a HTM like spiro-OMeTAD (an organic molecule) works as the p-type contact
  (FTO or ITO/TiO2/perovskite/spiro-OMeTAD/metal contact).

  In a p-i-n type structure, which is otherwise known as an inverted 倒置的 architecture, 
  perovskite is sandwiched between a p-type material (for example, PEDOT-PSS) at the bottom 
  and an n-type layer (for example, PCBM) at the top 
  (e.g., FTO or TiO2/PEDOT-PSS/perovskite/PCBM/metal contact). 

the processes of carrier generation, separation, and transport are not as straightforward as they are in amorphous 非晶的 Si p-i-n solar cells.
In p-i-n or n-i-p solar cells, the difference between quasi 准 Fermi levels at the selective contacts (i.e., between p-type and n-type layers) 
 limits the open-circuit voltage.

strong and coherent carrier−lattice coupling effect in perovskite, which was found to be important for both resonant and far-above-gap photoexcitation. 
ultrafast lattice distortions play a key role in the initial processes associated with charge transport.

2.3. Major Milestones of Progress

flat and dense perovskite film with large grains and high crystallinity is a prerequisite to high efficiency.
a good-quality perovskite film (pinhole-free, large grains) is the basic requirement for a device to perform well.

Almost all parameters involved in the solution processes：
(i) precursor solvent,
(ii) nature, concentration, and ratios of different precursor ions, 
(iii) nature and concentration of additives (besides the active ions), 
(iv) drying temperature, time, and environment(humidity level, controlled solvent or antisolvent vapor exposure), etc.-influence the morphology of the films.

anomalous J−V hysteresis and the important roles of different interfaces in device performance.

3. METAL OXIDE-BASED ELECTRON TRANSPORT LAYERS IN PEROVSKITE SOLAR CELLS

Metal oxide semiconductors, typically TiO2
mesoporous TiO2 介孔   n-Type

dual functions: one is selective electron extraction as ETM 
and other is provision 提供 of a large surface scaffold 支撑 to accommodate 容纳 perovskite crystals. 

nonporous 无孔 flat ETM film, a dense TiO2 film, or even organic materials such as PCBM
because of the long diffusion length of free carriers (>1 μm) in polycrystalline perovskite films

ETM is regularly coated on transparent conductive substrates such as FTO and ITO,

The existence of a compact layer 致密层 (CL) is essential to ensure selective electron extraction 
and hole-blocking 阻挡 function at the surface of the negative electrode.

mesoporous Al2O3 (which is insulator) layer on the TiO2 CL in a solid-state perovskite device 
produced higher efficiency and Voc compared to those observed with a meso-TiO2-based cell used as reference

mesoporous Al2O3 layer‘s role is to 
accommodate perovskite into its porous network so that carriers are conveyed to the substrate (electrode) through the infiltrated 渗透的 perovskite.
This is, in fact, enabled by the long distance diffusivity of carriers in perovskite.

However, much less work was done on the use of Al2O3 because devices with Al2O3 scaffolds often showed low fill factors 填充系数 (FFs), 
attributed to high impedance 阻抗 of the Al2O3 network
But, the ability to use Al2O3 provided the first evidence that perovskite is capable of transporting carriers over long distances without significant recombination.

SnO2 and ZnO are also used as ETMs

the energy level of the CB significantly influences the Voc and short-circuit photocurrent (Jsc) of the cells. 
Voc in DSSCs is determined 
by the energy gap between the CB level of the semiconductor 
and the redox 氧化还原 potential 电位 of the iodide-based redox agent 氧化还原剂 in the electrolyte (HTM), SnO2, 
having a deep CB level (large work function), always results in low Voc.
But, this is not the case for PSCs.

Perovskite solar cells using SnO2 and ZnO exhibit Voc and Jsc comparable 相当 with those of TiO2-based cells.
The thin metal oxide semiconduct film is current-rectifying 整流 layers with high electron selectivity (hole-blocking ability) in PSCs, 
While such thick metal oxide layers in DSSCs predominantly exhibit bulk semiconductor properties. 

an ALD-based thin SnO2 layer (15 nm) as the ETM in planar structure cells with mixed-cation perovskite absorber ((FAPbI3)0.85(MAPbBr3)0.15), 
in which formamidinium (FA) was mixed with MA. 
This cell achieved 18.4% PCE in the best conditions of film preparation (Figure 10). 
Under the same conditions, an 原子层沉积 ALD-based TiO2 thin layer resulted in lower efficiency of the cell, while Voc values in both cases were same. 
ALD-TiO2-based cell was the photocurrent, which was as low as 5 mA/cm2, in comparison to >20 mA/cm2 obtained with ALD-SnO2

the poor photocurrent in the case of TiO2 was due to band misalignment 未对准 between perovskite and TiO2, forming an energy barrier against electron transfer. 
the greater importance of thin-film properties over bulk properties of metal oxide ETMs in PSCs.

Nb2O5, WO3, Nb-doped TiO2, Mg-doped ZnO, MgO/TiO2. 
Fig12

For metal oxide materials, the band gap energy and CB level do not necessarily show good agreement with 
the open-circuit voltage observed in PSCs, probably due to its dependence on the form of material subjected to 受到 measurement. 
Such mismatches of values, if not large, can originate in the differences 
between single bulk crystal and polycrystalline films, film samples in vacuum and in air, and pure and defect rich samples. 

Voc of the device tends to be more influenced by the quality of the perovskite film and its heterojunction interfaces than by the bulk 块状,体积 
properties of the ETM. 

Defects/traps at the ETM/perovskite interface have been found to directly or indirectly influence the cell’s performance, especially J−V hysteresis.

Some words:
                    corroborate 证实           ambipolar 双极性的
                    architectures 架构         vicinity 周围
                 culminate 达到顶点       situ 原位
                 pertaining to 关于          flat and dense 平而密
                 anomalous 异常的         dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) 染料敏化太阳能电池
               work function 功函数      exert 类似make的作用, exert an influence on
               empirical index 经验指数  pristine  原始的

4. COMPOSITIONAL ENGINEERING OF PEROVSKITES

4.1. Mixed Compositions

One major development that has stood out among others and contributed substantially to enhanced stability is
incorporation of different cations in the A-site and different halides in the B-site.

most popular in the recent years is (MA/FA/Cs)Pb(I/Br)3, which is commonly known as a triple-cation-based perovskite. 

The quadruple-cation-based 四重阳离子 perovskite, including Rb (i.e., (MA/FA/Cs/Rb)Pb(I/Br)3) as the fourth cation, 
has also gained interest due to its high cell efficiency and stability.
Recent research has revealed that Rb ion would be expelled out to grain boundaries instead of  occupying the A-site

4.1.1. A-Site Cations Mixture.

Pb 6s 6p−I 5 p interactions lead to generation of the two bands: 
the valence band maximum (VBM) is formed by antibonding (σ*) P b 6 s−I 5p interactions, 
while the conduction band minimum (CBM) is formed by empty Pb 6p orbitals and/or by Pb 6p−I 5 p interactions.

the cations in the A-site are considered not to contribute directly toward the band structure, 
but they play a significant role in providing structural stability by charge compensation 补偿 within the PbI6 octahedra,
largely based on their electrostatic (van der Waals) interactions with the inorganic cage.
Nevertheless, any change in the size of cations in the A-site can either contract 收缩 or expand the crystal lattice, 
thereby altering the optical properties of the perovskite.

Smaller cations like Cs and Rb are expected to contract the lattice and thus increase the band gap, 
while larger cations like formamidinium (FA+) are supposed to expand the lattice and decrease the Eg. 
The article shows that contracting lattice caused the band gap increasing while expanding lattice caused the band gap decreasing. 
Expanding the crystal a bit, resulting in decreased Pb−I bond distance, which eventually lowers the band gap. (VBM Pb 6s-I 5p and CBM Pb 6p and/or Pb 6p-I 5p)

Although based on the Eg value (1.47 eV), FAPbI3 is supposed to perform better than MAPbI3(Eg. 1.55) due to its extended absorption edge (800 nm). 
With an extended absorption edge, FAPbI3 cells show higher photocurrent (Jsc), 
but their efficiency is mainly limited by poor FF, which is possibly related to phase instability of FAPbI3. 

FAPbI3 readily crystallizes into a photo-inactive phase (δ-FAPbI3) at room temperature (RT), 
and this phase is transformed to a photo-active black phase (α-FAPbI3) at temperatures between 125 and 165 °C.
This α-FAPbI3, formed at high temperatures, slowly transforms into δ-FAPbI3when kept at RT. 

a trigonal 三角的 α-FAPbI3 phase is stabilized at RT with a composition of 20 mol% of MA in MAxFA1‑xPbI3 (x = 0.2). 
although the best efficiency is reported (∼18.3%) for FA-based perovskites having a composition of MA0.4FA0.6PbI3. 
MA+, which has almost 10 times greater dipole moment than FA+, is incorporated, 
it exhibits stronger interactions with the [PbI6]4- octahedra 
and thus stabilizes the 3D arrangement of α-FAPbI3 with little lattice shrinkage or changes in the optical properties.

Although the efficiency of FAPbI3 cells falls behind that of the MAPbI3 cells, 
FAPbI3 has a significantly greater thermal stability compared to MAPbI3.
It is proposed that FA has a stronger interaction with iodide and, therefore, does not allow easy breaking of the network. 
It is also explained that FA, being less acidic than MA, does not undergo deprotonation to furnish 提供 HI (the first step of degradation 降解) as easily as MA.

an increased tolerance factor and a stronger interaction of FA with iodide ions, results in greater thermal stability of the FAxMA1‑xPbI3perovskites. 
FA is, unfortunately, more hygroscopic than MA.

Incorporation of the inorganic cation Cs became an alternate choice.
CsxMA1‑xPbI3 (x = 0.09) shows better performance (18.1%) and thermal stability (no color change when heated at 120 °C for 3 h) 
than pristine MAPbI3 (15.8%), while a higher concentration of Cs shows surprisingly worse stability. 
The unencapsulated Cs0.09 MA0.91 PbI3 cell retains above 80% of its initial performance, 
whereas the performance of the pure MAPbI3 cell deteriorates to less than 40% of its initial performance after heat treatment at 85 °C for 60 min. 
Regular MAPbI3 degrades completely when heated at 200 °C for 10 min, changing its absorption edge to that of PbI2, 
while the absorption spectrum of Cs0.05 MA0.95 PbI3 remains almost unchanged under the same treatment conditions.
Moisture stability is improved by Cs inclusion in the perovskite.

Small and large tolerance factors respectively for CsPbI3 (τ = 0.85) and FAPbI3 (τ = 0.98) stabilize the perovskites 
in orthorhombic 正交 (yellow) and hexagonal structures
the effective tolerance factor can be tuned to form a cubic structure (0.9 ≤ τ ≤ 1) by alloying CsPbI3 with FAPbI3 (FAxCs1‑xPbI3) over a range of proportions 比例.

FAPbI3 perovskites including either Rb or K have demonstrated improvements in the PV performance of the cells.

a small amount (x ≤ 0.05) of Rb+ can be included in FAPbI3, and higher concentrations lead to phase segregation. 
Devices based on Rb-mixed FAPbI3(i.e., Rb0.05 FA0.95 PbI3) outperform those based on FAPbI3, 
and more importantly, the stability of this Rb0.05FA0.95PbI3 film, as shown in Figure 15, 
against humid conditions is superior to that of Cs0.05 FA0.95 PbI3.

4.1.2. X-Site Anions Mixture

Distinct 明显的 effects of Cl present in the precursor solution on the quality, morphology, and crystallinity of the perovskite films 
have been observed. 
PbCl2 as the source of Pb- or Cl-based additives, such as HCl, NH4Cl, and MACl, 
improves the film quality by slowing down the crystallization, thus resulting in more uniform and pinhole-free 无孔的 films. 
Besides, the longer diffusion length of electrons in MAPbI3‑xClx than in MAPbI3 films 
has been credited with improving the performance of the cells.
But as the carrier lifetime or diffusion length is dependent on the morphology (grain size and grain boundaries) of polycrystalline films, 
it is not easy to separate the effect of Cl from effects of morphology on the electronic properties.

Unlike Cl, the presence and effect of Br in the X-site in mixed Br/I perovskites 
have been observed clearly and directly.
Incorporation of smaller Br− ions in MAPbI3‑xBrx increases the band gap of the mixed-halide perovskite, 
and this increment in Eg follows a quadratic 二次的 relation with the concentration of Br (Eg(x)=1.57+0.39x+0.33x^2)
Although the PCEs of cells with higher Br contents (>20%) were lower, the cells displayed better resistance against high humidity (RH = 55%), 
which was correlated with a tetragonal-to-pseudocubic 四方到类立方 structural transition (at x = 0.13). 

FAPbI3‑xBrx is amorphous. 
However, like in the case of MAPbI3‑xBrx, photoinduced phase segregation was also observed in FAPbI3‑xBrx.

The smaller difference in ionic radii (RI− = 2.07 Å, RBr− = 1.84 Å, RCl− = 1.67 Å) 
and the higher degree of ionic character
between Br and Cl are responsible for 
the easier miscibility of Br/Cl than I/Cl.

4.1.3. Both Cations and Anions Mixture

(FA/MA)Pb(I/Br)
Based on results of enhanced VOC by Br inclusion 
and increased structural stability in the FA-MA mix. 

Incorporation of cations with smaller effective radius (MA+) into FAPbI3 can
adjust the Goldschmidt tolerance factor close to 1 by
contracting the lattice (Figure 17a) 
or relaxing the crystal strain of FA-based perovskites (Figure 17b) 
to stabilize the cubic phase of the perovskite.

MA, with a smaller effective size than FA, worked here as a crystallizer for the black phase of FAPbI3, 
a slight amount of the photo-inactive yellow phase always remained in the resultant perovskite, 
which was considered to be detrimental for long-term stability.
the inclusion of Cs+, which is significantly smaller than MA+, as a third cation in mixed FA-MA and I-Br perovskites. 
Cs prevented formation of the yellow phase completely and the improved morphology of the perovskite film through further grain growth
(Cs/FA/MA/Pb/I/Br) demonstrated an incredibly long life (1000 h)

The two identifiable attributes of these triple-cation-based perovskite films are 
phase purity (no δ-phase formation) and uniform grains, which are apparently responsible for the enhanced PV performance of the cells. 
 Inclusion of Cs into the FA-MA-based perovskite 
completely prevents formation of the δ-phase, 
improving the phase purity of the resultant perovskite film. 

the presence of the intermediates/colloids 中间体/胶体 (not well investigated yet) in the
precursor solution are probably the keys to formation of good-quality perovskite films. 

a quadruple 四重 -cation mixed perovskite that included Rb as the fourth cation.
In comparison to Cs/FA/MA triple-cation devices,
Rb-based quadruple-cation perovskite cells show slightly higher FF, reduced hysteresis 滞后, and greater photostability, 
which were essentially attributed to reduced recombination and less defects.
Rb addition leads to increased charge carrier mobility but has only a marginal effect on the trap landscape of the perovskite layer. 
Cs incorporation significantly reduces the number and the depth of trap states in the perovskite crystals, 
but it has barely any effect on the charge carrier mobility. 

Upon combining Cs and Rb in quadruple-cation (Rb-Cs-FA-MA) perovskite mixtures, 
the highest mobility and the lowest trap density were observed, 
which subsequently resulted in solar cells with the highest stabilized power output. 

Cs can get incorporated into the crystal of (FA/MA)Pb(I/Br)3 up to 15 mol%, 
while Rb does not occupy any crystal sites. 
Instead, it segregates as rubidium-rich phases RbPbI3 mixed cesium−rubidium lead iodides, mixture of rubidium halides,
various rubidium lead bromides, depending on the exact composition 
a preferable accumulation of Rb+ species at the TiO2interface, while Cs+ is very homogeneously distributed in the film.

enrichment of Rb cations near the electron transport layer interface is possibly related to
a reduction of surface recombination in the vicinity of the electron transporting layer, 
which in turn affects device hysteresis and power output stability.

K inclusion in a variety of perovskite compositions has been found to eliminate hysteresis in the J−V curves of the cells. 
Among all alkali metal ions (Li+, Na+, K+, Rb+, Cs+), K+ works best for reducing/eliminating hysteresis.
K+ incorporation hinders formation of photoinactive δ-FAPbI3 almost completely,
resulting in enhanced lifetime of charge carriers, reduced recombination, 
and shift of conduction band edge toward better energy alignment with SnO2 ETL.

Summary of Key Effects of Cs, Rb, and K Inclusion into (FA/MA)Pb(I/Br)3 Mixed Perovskites

role and effects of                                                                      Cs role and effects of Rb                                                                 Role and effects of K
•gets incorporated into lattice at A-site                  •most likely not incorporated into lattice atA-site                          •most likely not incorporated into lattice A-site
•helps in formation of cubic perovskite phase
(complete removal of yellow phase)                      •segregation preferably near to the ETLand at grain boundaries  •shift of XRD peaks/lattice expansion 
                                                                                                                                                                                                        (contrary to whatexpected if it was incorporated)
•enhanced stability                                                    •enhanced stability                                                                                •reduction/elimination of hysteresis
•reduces trap states                                                  •enhancement in charge mobility                                                        •hinders formation of δ-FAPbI3
•resists phase segregation in 
mixed I/Br perovskites
(improves photostability)                                          •no effect on trap landscape                                                       •grain boundary passivation

In all three cases, Cs, Rb, and K, the improvement in PCE is basically 
due to higher Voc and better FF, 
which is a result of traps-passivation. 

inclusion of Cs and/or Rb in (FA/MA)Pb(I/Br)3 films increases 
the amount of unreacted FAI on the surface of the films (Figure 24), 
which is indeed responsible for an increase in Voc in the devices with Cs, or Rb doped FAMA perovskite.

some words:
               unencapsulated 未密封的  discrepancy 差异
               deteriorated 恶化             uniform and dense 均匀且致密的
               miscibility 混溶性            simultaneous 同时的
               detrimental 有害的            crystallizer 结晶器
               attributes 属性                  retard 阻碍                 
               recipe 方法，处方            depth profile 深度剖面
               vicinity 附近

4.2. Mixed Dimensions

2D perovskites are more stable to heat and humidity 
but they lag behind the 3D perovskites in terms of performance because of their narrow absorption band in addition to poor electron transport properties.

However,
mixing a small amount of 2D perovskite to 3D perovskite structures (2D/3D)
have been found to work with higher efficiency and improved long-term stability.

incorporation of 0.8 mol% of ethylenediammonium 乙二胺 iodide (EDAI) 
(which forms a 2D perovskite structure when mixed alone with PbI2) 
into 3D MAPbI3 structure improves the PCE by reducing recombination. 

a combination of properties of enhanced stability from 2D perovskite 
and excellent optoelectronic properties from 3D perovskite 
has been observed in a mixed-dimensionality and mixed-compositional (MDMC) lead iodide perovskite 
based on [CF3CH2NH2]2 (FA0.825 MA0.15 Cs0.025)n‑1 Pbn(I0.85Br0.15)3n+1 series (n = 1−∞, C F3CH2NH2-TFEA)
The hydrophobic nature of the trifluoroethylamine chain 
and the multilayered structure of the mixed perovskite (Figure 26)
result in enhanced moisture resistance. 

some words:
                   hydrophobic 疏水的              trifluoroethylamine 三氟乙胺CF3CH2NH2 (TFEA)
                   multidimension multicomposition 多维复合 (MDMC)
                   encapsulation 封装                aminovaleric acid iodide (AVAI) 氨基戊碘酸
                   deterioration 恶化               degradation 降解

5. STABILITY OF PEROVSKITE SOLAR CELLS

5.1. Stability Issues with Perovskites

5.1.1. Structural/Intrinsic Stability

Structural stability of perovskite compounds 
can be primarily judged by the Goldschmidt tolerance factor (τ), 
which is an empirical index widely used to predict formation of different crystal structures of ABX3.

When τ is in the rage of 0.8 < τ < 1, ideal cubic perovskite structures or distorted perovskite structures with tilted octahedra are favored.
0.9 < τ < 1 favors a cubic perovskite structure while for 0.8 < τ < 0. 9, a distorted perovskite structure is formed. 
Values of τ < 0.8 and τ > 1 diminish the possibility of formation of perovskite structures.

FAPbI3 is prone to formation of a hexagonal δ-phase which is photoinactive. 
CsPbI3 with τ ≈ 0.8, is at the edge of lower boundary for perovskite structures, 
and it normally crystallizes into a δ-phase. 
MAPbI3 with τ ≈ 0.9 is close to the middle of the perovskite zone and forms a black photoactive perovskite phase.

mixing of different cations and anions improves structural stability of perovskites, 
essentially by adjusting the value of τ close to middle of perovskite zone.(0.9) 

According to the mixture rule, for (Ax A′1‑x)B(Xy X′1‑y)3, 
rA(eff), and rX(eff) can be calculated by using the following equations:
rA(eff)=xrA+(1-x)rA' ; rX(eff)=yrX+(1-y)rX'
The effective tolerance factor (τeff) is calculated by using the values of rA(eff) and rX(eff) 

for such systems of mixed perovskites, 
formation of secondary non-perovskite phases above certain concentration
becomes another important factor that influences the stability.
In other words, τeff close to 0.9 is not a sufficient condition for predicting structural stability of mixed perovskites. 
Nonetheless, it provides guidance for selecting the ions or combination of ions.
phase purity also plays a significant role in intrinsic long-term stability of the mixed perovskites.

MAPbX3 (X = Cl, Br, I) decomposes to PbX2(s), MA(g), and HX(g). 
Energy of formation of these component products of degradation process
confirms that MAPbI3 and MAPbBr3 are thermodynamically more stable than MAPbCl3

the possibilities that such ion migration can affect long-term stability of PSCs have increased tremendously. 
In any ionic solid, migration of ions must be mediated 介导 by defects in the solid
The rate of migration of ions in such solids
depends on the available interstitial space, Schottky defects
(cation or anion vacancies), ion jumping distance, and size and charge of the ions. 
Smaller ions and ions with smaller charge tend to migrate faster than larger ions and ions with greater charge.
It is believed that ions in perovskites essentially migrate through the cation and anion defects (i.e., MA+ and I− vacancies). 
How easily an ion migrates in perovskite film can be assessed by its activation energy of migration.
the calculation of activation energies of migration for I−, Pb2+, MA+, or FA+, suggests iodide 碘化物(如PbI2) to be most easily migrating ion. 
Increasing accumulation of MA+ near the cathode with time of biasing (the poling field is 1.6 V μm−1) confirms migration of MA+ ions.

In polycrystalline films, grain boundaries are considered as preferred regions of ion migration than within the grains. 
Therefore, it is possible to minimize ion migration in perovskite films by reducing the number of grain boundaries. 
However, reducing the grain boundary volume might not eliminate the process of ion migration because, 
as observed in several studies, halides also can migrate in single crystals of MAPbI3 and MAPbBr3. 

Channels other than grain boundaries also exist.

DFT calculation has suggested increase in ion migration barrier energy by alkali metals (Rb+, K+, Na+, and Li+) occupying interstitial sites of perovskite.

thermal strain generated during the annealing process of perovskite films 
accelerates degradation of the perovskite.
Such strain in the polycrystalline MAPbI3 film due to difference in thermal
expansion of the substrate (ITO glass) and perovskite (MAPbI3). 
The films with large strain (convex 凸面 bending) degraded faster
while the film with least strain (concave 凹面 bending) did not degrade at all. 
, which suggests that the thermal expansion of substrate would be larger than that of perovskite. 

selection of a low-temperature processing method or a polymeric substrate with higher coefficient of thermal expansion 
(as long as the device operation is below the annealing temperature)
can be effective in reducing stress and improving the inherent 固有的 moisture and thermal stability of perovskite films.

ferroelasticity 铁弹性 (spontaneous 自发的 phase transition from cubic to tetragonal under applied stress) in MAPbI3 perovskites
Such stress-induced phase transition, which generates intragrain 晶粒内的 strain, can also be an important intrinsic source of instability.

The other significant source of instability can be the crystal orientation

some words:
                  diminish 减少              zone 区域
                  mediate 调解               available interstitial space 可用间隙空间
                  thread 路线                 cathode 阴极       anode 阳极
                  bend 弯曲                   intact 完整的
                  corrode 侵蚀

5.1.2. External/Environmental Stability.

water molecules easily bind to perovskite by hydrogen bonding to form hydrated compounds. 

The losses caused by this hydrated compounds can be reversed, as shown for MAPbI3 in eq 2,
but further ingression 进入 of water can cause irreversible degradation of perovskite to PbI2 and other components
4CH3NH3PbI3+4H2O = 4[CH3NH3PbI3 H2O] = [(CH3NH3)4 Pb I6 2H2O]+3PbI2+2H2O (2)
[(CH3NH3)4 PbI6 2H2O] = 4CH3NH3I+PbI2+2H2O (3)

passivation of the traps and protection against moisture ingression

Large organic cation that has more hydrophobic nature than MA and FA helps in improving the moisture resistance. 
This moisture resistance can also be highly enhanced by modifying perovskite surface by hydrophobic polymer.

polyvinylpyridine (PVP) 聚乙烯吡啶
an ultra-thin layer (<10nm) of polyvinylpyridine (PVP) coated on perovskite surface (MAPbI3) 
and in contact with spiro-OMeTAD 
improves water resistance of MAPbI3 when dipped in water for up 100s

The PVP-modified device also shows enhanced
open-circuit voltage and efficiency. 
Lewis base side chain of PVP possibly coordinates the under-coordianted 配位不足的 Pb2+ on the surface of perovskite 
and thereby reduces the surface traps density as observed by PL enhancement (Figure 32b).

continuous chemical functionalization of grain boundaries of MAPbI3 films by use of triblock copolymers that exhibit both hydrophilicity 亲水 and hydrophobicity 
has been also found to boost the PCE as well as stability of the MAPbI3 cells.

Such influence of atmosphere (O2, N2, or vacuum) on optical and electronic properties of perovskites
might become rather a bigger concern than humidity. 
a strong luminescence when aged in O2
O2 is reversibly adsorbed on the surface of MAPbI3 (Cl) and thereby, 
passivates the deep surface trap states, resulting in enhanced luminescence.
a photochemical reaction between the photogenerated carriers and oxygen-related species 
deactivates 使失活the trap states in MAPbI3 perovskite, 

involvement of superoxide ion (O2•−) in defects passivation
O2 ions, formed in the presence of light, remove the shallow trap states at the surface of MAPbI3. 
(contradictory result) O2 can form Pb−O bonds on the surface of perovskite film, and such oxidation of perovskite surface results in weak luminescence.

The surface trap states of perovskite, if not healed 修复 by the HTM coated on its top, 
can be detrimental to carrier transfer at the interface.

O2•− generated by electron transfer from the photoexcited perovskite to molecular oxygen on the surface. 
This superoxide ion then breaks down the perovskite by deprotonating 去质子化 the organic cation (MA), as shown in the equations below:
()中为反应条件
MAPbI3 (light, no moisture)= MAPbI3*
O2 (MAPbI3*)= O2•−
MAPbI3+O2•− = MeNH2+PbI2+0.5I2+H2O
Several studies have disclosed that perovskite films exposed simultaneously to oxygen and light
degrades faster than even the moisture-exposure case. 

oxygen tolerance of perovskites strongly depends on charge carrier density. 
cells aged at open-circuit conditions (no charge collection) show faster degradation than the cells at short circuit. 

Light
UV light-induced photocatalytic 光催化 degradation by the most widely used ETL, TiO2 can be prevented either 
by complete replacement of TiO2 with an alternative less photoactive ETL, or by pacifying the surface of TiO2, 
or by preventing UV light to reach TiO2 by coating UV-absorbing layers on top.
For example, Al2O3 or SnO2 mesoporous layer shows better stability than TiO2 against UV light, 
and surface modification of TiO2 with silane coupling agents (KH570) has been found to enhance UV light stability of the perovskite cells.
FTO/BCP/triple cation perovskite/spiro-OMeTAD/Au, where BCP is bathocuproine 浴铜素

a UV-absorber material like 2-(2H-benzotriazol-2-yl)-4,6-bis(1-methyl-1-phenylethyl)phenol

311 nm UV radiations heavily deteriorate the JSC of all the cells
whereas the 370 nm UV radiation causes lesser or no performance deterioration at all. 

A reversible photo-induced phase separation results in 
formation of iodide-rich and bromide-rich regions in mixed-halide perovskites. 

one of the proposed mechanisms for such phase segregation describes that
electron−phonon coupling in the photoexcited state of mixed perovskites deforms 变形 the surrounding lattice, 
While the orther proposed origin is halogen defects.

Based on the observation of less severe photo-induced phase segregation in mixed halide perovskites including Cs or FA as partial substitution to MA,
which eventually improves the crystallinity and morphology through large grains, 
it is believed that defects like halogen vacancies are essentially the main promoters 促进者 of such phase separation. 

ion mobility is known to be more facile at the grain boundaries, reducing volume of grain boundaries (growing large grains) 
results in improved photo-stability by slowing down the ion migration.

compositions with low Br and high Cs demonstrate superior photostability than compositions with high Br and low Cs.

some words:
                  reverse 逆转
                  rugged sealing 坚固的密封  hydrophobic 不易被水沾湿的 疏水的
                  elevating 提高                    triblock copolymers 三嵌段共聚物
                  durability 耐久性                 formidable 强大的
                  irradiation 放射                   soaking 浸泡
                  less severe 不那么严重        more facile 更方便
                  verify 核实

5.2. Stability Issues with Hole Transport Materials and Contacts

perovskite/HTM junction is the beating heart
The most popular one that leads in terms of efficiency is an organic small molecule, spiro-OMeTAD, while conducting polymers like P3HT, PTAA, PEDOT:PSS, etc. 
and inorganic p-type materials like NiOx, CuOx, CuPc, etc. 

LiTFSI (lithiumbis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide) 双（三氟甲磺酰基）亚胺锂 is hygroscopic 吸湿 and
is added to it as a p-dopant 掺杂, which promotes oxidation of spiro-OMeTAD in the presence of oxygen to enhance the hole mobility.

performance of cells using spiro-OMeTAD and LiTFSI as additive decreases due to either crystallization or photo-oxidation of spiro-OMeTAD, or
because of diffusion of Au into the spiro-OMeTAD film.

some physical or chemical exchange at the MAPbI3/spiro-OMeTAD interface at elevated 高的 temperatures can be the main reason for
performance deterioration in MAPbI3 solar cells 
while slight degradation of perovskite may have almost no effect on such performance degradation. 

spiro-OMeTAD+ can react with migrating I− to reduce hole conductivity of the HTM
and MA+ ions from MAPbI3 can diffuse into spiro-OMeTAD.

It is, therefore, believed that prevention of ion diffusion between the layers can be one of the strategies to improve thermal stability of PSCs.

4-tert-butylpyridine (TBP) 4-叔丁基吡啶 
[spiro-OMeTAD with LiTFSI and 4-tert-butylpyridine (TBP) ]
oxidized spiro-OMeTAD (spiro-OMeTAD+) is reduced by TBP 
while a part of spiro-OMeTAD undergoes pyridination 吡啶化 on its reaction with TBP.

spiro-OMeTAD HTM has many stability issues:
(i) Li (in dopant) diffusion into perovskite, 
(ii)Au diffusion into spiro-OMeTAD, 
(iii) reaction of iodide with oxidized spiro-OMeTAD, 
(iii) migration of MA+ into spiro-OMeTAD, 
(iv) physical deformation 变形 at elevated temperature,
(v) crystallization of spiro-OMeTAD, 
(vi) chemical reaction between the additives. 

some words:
                   preliminary results 初步研究           doctor-bladed 刀片式的

6. ALL-INORGANIC PEROVSKITES

One inorganic cation that has been found suitable and successful in forming perovskite structures is cesium (Cs+),
although theoretical studies also predict some perovskite compounds of Rb.
CsPbX3 and CsSnX3 (X = Cl, Br, I)

6.1. CsPbI3: Stabilization of Black Phase

The imposing challenge with CsPbI3 is stabilization of its black photoactive phase (α-CsPbI3) at RT 
because CsPbI3 preferably crystallizes in a yellow phase (δ-CsPbI3) at RT while the black phase is only stable at temperature above 310 °C

to stabilize α-CsPbI3 could by
1)increasing the tolerance factor, which can be accomplished 
by partial substitution of either Cs+ (r = 167 pm) with bigger cations like MA+ (r = 217 pm) and FA+ (r = 253 pm) in the A-site 
or I− ions (r = 220 pm) with smaller anions like Br− (r = 196 pm) and Cl− (r = 181 pm) in the X-site. 

2)and reducing the crystal dimensions (size-controlled stabilization)
Hence, suitable foreign dopants or even additives in the precursors of CsPbI3 
that can restrict the dimensions of crystals to few nanometers (nanocrystals) can effectively stabilize the cubic CsPbI3.

incorporation of additives like HI, sulfobetaine zwitter-ion 两性离子, ethylenediamine (EDA) into CsPbI3 precursor 
has been found to stabilize a black photoactive phase at RT.
HI in the CsPbI3 solution induces formation of small grains and creates strain 应变 in crystals, 
which are likely responsible for stabilization of the black phase of CsPbI3 at RT. 

quantum dot-induced stabilization (size-controlled phase stabilization) of α-CsPbI3 seems to work far more effectively. 
inclusion of a small amount of ethylene diamine lead iodide (EDAPbI4) 2D perovskite in CsPbI3 stabilizes the α-CsPbI3 at RT for months,

Partial substitution of Pb2+ with Bi3+, Sb3+, or Ca2+ has also been found to serve the purpose of stabilizing the α-CsPbI3. 
e.g. At an optimal concentration of Bi3+ (4 mol% in CsPbI3), δ-phase is completely converted to α-phase,

Two common observations 观察结果 in all the reports presenting formation/stabilization of black phase at RT are 
(i) reduction in crystal size (or grain size) and
(ii) microstrain in crystals (splitting of the XRD peaks).

Eu (both Eu2+ and Eu3+) ion‘s interaction with other ions in the solution probably controls the crystallization and grain growth 

stabilization of the black phase at low temperature is largely sourced by smaller particles/grains and
inclusion of suitable metal ions limits crystal growth to even nanometer size, and as result, the cubic phase is stabilized.

some words:
                    orthorhombic 斜方的               implementation 执行
                 appreciable 可观的                  sulfobetaine 磺基甜菜碱
                 ethylenediamine (EDA) 乙二胺  sequential isopropanol treatment 顺序异丙醇处理
                 charge neutrality 电荷中性         phenyltrimethylammonium bromide (PTABr) 苯基三甲基溴化铵

6.2. Cesium−Lead Mixed Halide Perovskites

CsPbI3‑xBrx
The band gap of CsPbI3‑xBrx can be precisely controlled by I/Br ratio; 
Eg increasing with more Br and decreasing with more I in CsPbI3‑xBrx.

Rb1‑xCsxPbI3
can stabilize perovskite black phase and
provide other beneficial effects from bandgap engineering.

Cs2TiBr6

it can be anticipated that more interesting perovskite structures with different metals in the B-site of CsPbX3 are yet to be discovered. 

Cs2TiI6, R b2TiI6, K2TiI6, and In2TiI6

7. LEAD-FREE AND LOW-LEAD PEROVSKITES
7.1. Lead-Free Perovskite Materials
Group 14 elements like Sn2+ and Ge2+,
alkaline earth metals like Be2+, Mg2+, Ca2+, Sr2+, and Ba2+,
transition metals such as V2+, Mn2+, Fe2+, Co2+, Ni2+, Pd2+, Cu2+, Zn2+, Cd2+, and Hg2+, 
lanthanides like Eu2+, Tm2+, and Yb2+, 
and p-block elements like Ga2+ and In2+ can be considered for alternative Pb-free perovskites.

However, considering stability of formed perovskite structure and PV properties, 
the candidates which look promising are cations Sn2+, Ge2+, Mg2+, Mn2+, Ni2+, and Co2+.

some words:
                   insidious hazard 阴险的的危险
                   interfere 干扰                          topsoil 表土

7.1.1. Tin (Sn)-Based Perovskites. 

CsSnI3‑xBrx
based Sn perovskite material because of low bandgap (∼1.3
eV) and exciton binding energies (∼18 meV) and reported
initial efficiency of 0.9%

MASnI3 and MASnI3‑xBrx
With incorporation of Br−, the VOC was significantly increased, 
attributing to raised conduction band edge and reduced series resistance in MASnI3‑xBrx,

multivalent nature of Sn and easy oxidation of Sn2+ to Sn4+ in ambient conditions hav been constant challenges for its employment in PSCs
The oxidized Sn4+ ion acts as a p-type dopant, causing self-doping of the perovskite layer and, thus, limitng PCE

Another factor that limits the PCE is the poor coverage 覆盖 and inhomogeneity 不均匀 of Sn perovskite films 
due to rapid crystallization, resulting in large number of pin-holes.
pinhole free high quality films could be obtained in case of DMSO and NMP (solvents), induced by intermediate phase, 
which resulted in unprecedented rise in photocurrent, up to 21 mA/cm
vapor deposition and hybrid vapor deposition−solution methods

SnI2 obtained by physical vapor deposition was converted to MASnI3 
by spin coating the MAI solution, were found to be highly dependent on the concentration of MAI 
and very interestingly, the MASnI3 films did not show Sn4+ peaks after storing for 20 days in glovebox and for 90 min in ambient atmosphere. 
This stability was attributed to high quality and dense evaporated 蒸发的 SnI2 films.

two-step deposition technique can be advantageous for stabilizing Sn perovskites.
MASnBr3 perovskite deposited by co-evaporation forms Sn−Br oxide on the surface (capping layer), 
which restrains generation of excitons and charge transport across the interface and leads to low efficiency (0.35%), 
MASnBr3 made by sequential evaporation 顺序蒸发 method yields a PCE of 1.12% due to much reduced oxidation by the top MABr layer.

Sn2+ is prone to oxidation,
addition of extra Sn2+ precursors like SnI2, SnF2 and SnCl2 to precursor solution have been tried to compensate missing Sn2+ 

CsSnI3 is more stable in its yellow phase (not orthorhombic 非正交) but 除了 addition of SnF2, [which does not get incorporated into the crystal lattice,
从而 distorts the structure due to much smaller ionic radii of F− compared to I− and thereby prevents formation of the yellow phase. ]
However, addition of excess SnF2 leads to severe phase separation, which is remarkably reduced by binding SnF2 to pyrazine 吡嗪.

To suppress the adverse effect of excess SnF2, additives (in combination with SnF2) such as hydrazine 肼 (N2H4) and hypophosphorous acid 次磷酸 (H3PO2), 
which act like reducing agents 还原剂, have been incorporated into Sn perovskites in combination with SnF2 and have been found to show improved stability. 

mixing CH3(CH2)3NH3+ (BA+) and CH3NH3+ (MA+) to obtain 2D (CH3(CH2)3NH3)2-(CH3NH3)n‑1 Sn n I3n+1
possessing an optimal bandgap of 1.42 and 1.5 eV for n = 4 and 3, respectively.
In terms of moisture stability and device performance, 
the lower dimensional perovskite (n = 4) outperformed its 3D analogue.

(PEA)2(FA)8 Sn9 I28
phenylethylammonium (PEA) 苯乙基铵

some words:
                    reduced series resistance 降低串联电阻
                    fluorine-doped tin oxide FTO 掺氟氧化锡
                 dimethyl formamide (DMF) 二甲基甲酰胺
                    pristine 原始的

7.1.2. Germanium (Ge)-Based Perovskites.

AGeX3
band gap increasing with decreasing size of halide ions.

CsGeX3, Eg changes from 1.6 to 2.3 to 3.2 eV when X changes from I to Br to Cl, respectively. 
Ge-based perovskites show increasing band gap with an increase in the radii of A cations. 
bulkier cations also can reduce the dimensionality, and nature of band gap from direct to indirect one. 
This results in poor absorption by such Ge perovskites.

7.1.3. Lead-Free Binary 二元 Metal Halide Perovskites.

Tl-Bi, Sn-Ge

RbSn0.5Ge0.5I3 was found to possess a direct band gap within an optimal range of 0.9−1.6 eV and an optical absorption similar to that of MAPbI3

Cs4CuSb2Cl12 having a direct band gap of 1 eV
Cs4CuSb2Cl12is stable against heat-stress, light, and humidity and possesses better conductivity than MAPbI3. 

some words:
                   bulkier. 比较级(bulky) 较大的        tandem devices 串联装置
                   aliovalent ionic pair 异价离子对      enthalpy 焓
                   dual cation 双阳离子

7.1.4. Group 15 Metal-Based Perovskite/Nonperovskite Materials. 

antimony (Sb)- and bismuth (Bi)-based perovskites

the single-crystal structure of MA3Bi2I9 and found that three equivalent symmetrical I- helps to combine every two Bi3+, 
and these I- are situated on the other sides of mirror planes

Cs3Sb2I9 is reported to exist in 0D dimer (space group P63/mmc) and 2D layered forms (space group P3m1)

the Rb3Sb2I9 is effectively stabilized in 2D layered form 

In MA3Sb2I9, incorporation of Cl− has been found to transform the dimer form to 2D layered structure which reaching a record PCE of 2%.

AMX3 or A2MM′X6

MABiXY2 (X = chalcogen 氧族元素; Y = halogen 卤素) 
MABiSI2and MABiSeI2 possess similar optical gap (∼1.3−1.4 eV) as of lead perovskites

AgBi2I7(non-perovskite cubic phase)

excess of BiI3 in the Ag−Bi iodide compounds plays a role of passivating the defects/traps

some words:
                     integrated 融合的           ternary 三元的
                     anatase 锐钛矿              mitigation 减轻

7.2. Low-Lead Perovskite Materials: Reducing Toxicity and Enhancing Efficiency

/3078

Questions：
1. Expanding the crystal a bit, resulting in decreased Pb−I bond distance, which eventually lowers the band gap.
    We knew VBM consisted of Pb 6s-I 5p and CBM consisted of Pb 6p and/or Pb 6p-I 5p. So what the mechanism of that?
  My answers:  The decrease of  Pb−I bond distance caused the orbital overlap between Pb and I, 
                        so the CBM would be expanded and close to VBM which resulted in the band gap decreasing 
                        because the energy band formed by orbital overlap. The orbital overlap increasing leads to the inner shell orbital overlap, 
                        and the energy level splitting was increased, which further leads to VB shift down 
                        (the increased number of electrons less than the increased number of orbits, e.g. two s-orbit overlap with 4 electrons, 
                         there are 4 splitted orbits, considering the spin 自旋 of electron there would be two orbits became the CB 
                         while the bottom two orbits became the VB, but the initial 4 orbits origined from the original VB)

2. 